- [Instructor] Let's take a look at the use cases
where either a container,
which is running as part of your service, fails,
or a node on which the container is running, fails.
Now, a happy scenario is not the usual scenario.
A typical scenario is where container or node will fail.
Now Docker Swarm Mode
has really cool functionality for that.
Let's take a look at that.
So the first scenario that we're going to look at
is, let's say, my container fails.
Okay.
In this case, the container on the bottom node
in the middle is failing.
Swarm Mode recognizes that the desired number of replicas,
which was three, and the actual, which was two,
is not matching.
So it'll reschedule the container on a different node.
As simple as that.
So that is exactly the declarative state
of the service that we were talking about earlier.
Now, what happens if a node fails?
Sure, node can fail as well.
A network connectivity, there are hundreds of reasons
by which a node may fail.
And, let's say, our container was running on that node.
Okay. Once again, Swarm Mode recognizes
that the desired number of replicas of a service
is not matching the actual number of replicas of the service
and it'll just reconcile
and schedule a new container on a different node.
And if that original node comes back in the cluster,
it's treated as just under the node then.
Okay, so let's take a look at some of this in action.
I'm here in my terminal
and if you recall, we left where we were looking at
the state of containers that are running across
my Docker Machine cluster here.
So let's clear up the screen here.
I'm already ssh into my manager1 here.
So let's take a look at
where are my containers really running.
So I'm going to say, docker service ps web.
Now it says I have web.1, web.2, web.3
running on these different nodes here.
Okay. That's good.
Our use case is really to say that,
okay, my container is failing.
Now, since we are on manager1,
we will have to exit out of manager1
and then what we'll do is, for our convenience,
we will run into worker1 or, say, manager3.
So we will ssh into manager3 here
and we can say,
show me the list of containers that are running.
And rightly so,
it says that this container is running over here.
Okay? Now, we can kill the container
but in order to show you
that the container has actually died
and the number of replicas for a service are less,
let's get out of this shell here.
And what we will do is we will say,
docker-machine ssh manager1.
And now to that we will say,
docker service ls.
So this says three of three replicas are running.
I can give the command, now, to manager3,
which is where one of my replicas is running.
I can say, docker container rm
and I have to brute force it.
So if we scroll up here,
here is my container ID.
I'm going to copy it,
I'm going to paste it like this.
Now I'm purposely killing it.
Now, this may happen by accident in your case
but this is a good simulation of that.
So the container has been killed.
Let's take a look at the number of replicas.
You can see that only two out of three replicas are running.
So the Docker Swarm Manager kicks in.
It says the actual versus desired is not matching.
It's going to download the jboss/wildfly image,
if not already downloaded.
It's going to run the container
and it's going to look good for us again.
Let's take a look at the status of service.
And rightly so, it is back to three and three.
And now show me the tasks for the service web.
It says the container on the manager
failed about 35 seconds ago.
And now the workers one, two and three,
are running a container each.
So see how easy it is, the containers
and the number of replicas for a service
are maintained consistently.
Now let's take a look at the other use case
where we can simulate if a node goes down.
Okay.
So I'm going to take a look at docker-machine ls.
It's showing me three managers and three workers.
And if you recall from the previous output,
my containers are running on worker one, two and three.
Now to simulate a node failure,
what I'll do is I will try to shut down my worker1.
But before that, I want to make sure
I can see the number of replicas of the service.
Rightly so, three.
So now let's take docker-machine
and stop worker1.
It's trying to stop worker1,
which is basically simulating a node failure.
And that was too fast.
As soon as we stopped the node,
the container was automatically fired up
on a different node.
The node went down and we didn't really get time
to show that the desired versus actual
are not really matching.
But let's see what might have happened.
So if you look at ps web,
and what happened is, now, one of the containers
is running on manager1.
And the reason this change was so quick and rapid
is because on manager1,
the image had already been downloaded.
Had this been the case where the container
was started on a new node,
where the image has not been downloaded,
it would have taken some time.
But that's the beauty of it.
You are completely transparent to the part,
the Docker Swarm Manager will create the service for you,
maintain the service for you,
it'll download the image, if need be.
But in this section, essentially what we saw,
if a container fails or if a node fails,
either way Docker Swarm reconciles
and makes sure the set number of replicas
are running for you.